## Origin: 2020 Dec 20 - 2021 Feb 21

*This project was started by SexyYear on December 20th, 2020.*

*This project was later made public on February 24th, 2021.*

**The first release statement, on Reddit, regarding the terminal was:**

Hey guys, hear me out.

I’ve been here for quite some time, although my account shows only few weeks old. (That’s thanks to the fact that on my previous account I had my username as my full name …) And Reddit has been one of the apps I spent most of my time on. This is regardless whether I want to learn about the stock market, attend NASA’s AMA on Perseverance, or even for the memes on WSB community.

Hence, I felt like I owed something to the community. For that reason, and also because I can, I developed a multi-purpose terminal.

I changed my reddit account because it had my full legal name, and then in my first post I share my own personal github…. life’s tricky.
Anyway, I’ve lost a lot of time around the README files, so that before you lose any time cloning the repo, you have full disclosure to whatever you’ll get out of this repo.

But in summary, the Terminal has 7 distinct menus:

**Discover Stocks**
- Some features are: Top gainers; Sectors performance; upcoming earnings releases; top high shorted interest stocks; top stocks with low float; top orders on fidelity; and some SPAC websites with news/calendars.

**Market Sentiment**
- Main features are: Scrolling through Reddit main posts, and most tickers mentions; Extracting trending symbols on stocktwits, or even stocktwit sentiment based on bull/bear flags; Twitter in-depth sentiment prediction using AI; Google mentions over time.

**Research Web pages**
- List of good pages to do research on a stock, e.g. macroaxis, zacks, macrotrends, ..

**Fundamental Analysis**
- Read financials from a company from Market Watch, Yahoo Finance, Alpha Vantage, and Financial Modeling Prep API. Since I only rely on free data, I added the information from all of these, so that the user can get it from the source it trusts the most. Also exports management team behind stock, along with their pages on Google, to speed up research process.

**Technical Analysis**
- The usual technical indicators: sma, rsi, macd, adx, bbands, and more.

**Due Diligence**
- It has several features that I found to be really useful. Some of them are: Latest news of the company; Analyst prices and ratings; Price target from several analysts plot over time vs stock price; Insider activity, and these timestamps marked on the stock price historical data; Latest SEC fillings; Short interest over time; A check for financial warnings based on Sean Seah book.

**Prediction Techniques**
- The one I had more fun with. It tries to predict the stock price, from simple models like sma and arima to complex neural network models, like LSTM. The additional capability here is that all of these are easy to configure. Either through command line arguments, or even in form of a configuration file to define your NN.

About me, I’m a Sensor Fusion Engineer, and I enjoy working in self-learning projects in my spare time involving mostly some sort of ML/AI. I’m more than happy to add features that you request to the repo, and will keep on top of bugs.

I’m sorry that there isn’t a simple web interface for this which may be limiting for some of you. It’s not that I didn’t want to, but more that I don’t have experience with such. If one of you guys is keen on creating it for this terminal, that would be amazing.

Your feedback is very much appreciated!
